=== 0.2.1 / 2009-11-08

* Added Versionomy#version_of.
* Now lets Blockenspiel set its own VERSION instead of reaching into
  Blockenspiel's namespace.

=== 0.2.0 / 2009-11-05

* API CHANGE: Slight change to value comparison semantics. Value#eql? returns true only if the schemas are the same, whereas Value#== and the greater than and less than comparisons attempt to compare the semantic value, and thus may perform automatic schema conversion on the RHS.
* API CHANGE: Merged Formats namespace into Format. Versionomy::Formats is now a (deprecated) alias for Versionomy::Format.
* API CHANGE: The delimiter parsing algorithm now defaults :extra_characters to :error instead of :ignore.
* Added a mechanism for converting from one format/schema to another.
* Added Rubygems format, along with conversions to and from the standard format.
* Values now include Comparable.
* Values can now be serialized using Marshal and YAML.
* Schemas can now add custom methods to value objects. Added "prerelease?" and "release" methods to rubygems and standard format values.
* Added default field settings to schema DSL.
* Implemented #=== for schemas and formats.
* Many minor bug fixes and documentation updates.

=== 0.1.3 / 2009-10-29

* Fixed an issue with parsing the "-p" patchlevel delimiter, e.g. "1.9.1-p243". (Reported by Luis Lavena.)

=== 0.1.2 / 2009-10-28

* You can now specify fields by index in methods of Versionomy::Value.
* Minor rakefile and documentation updates.

=== 0.1.1 / 2009-10-19

* Formats can now be specified by name in the convenience interface.
* FormatRedefinedError no longer subclasses FormatCreationError.
* Some documentation updates.
* Rakefile updates for publishing to rubyforge and gemcutter.

=== 0.1.0 / 2009-10-14

* Alpha release, opened for public feedback
* General rearchitecture. Better distinction between format and schema. Schema split into schema and field objects so the API makes more sense. Values are tighter and easier to use. Formats can now be built using a DSL. A bunch of API changes and bug fixes accompanied this-- too many to list.
* In the standard schema, renamed release type "release" to "final". Also renamed release type "prerelease" to "preview", now sorted between "release candidate" and "final".
* Documentation is much more complete.
* Now tested and confirmed compatible with Matz Ruby 1.9.1 and JRuby 1.4.
* Now uses blockenspiel 0.2; thus longer requires the mixology gem.
* Building no longer requires hoe.

=== 0.0.4 / 2008-10-24

* Fixed incompatibility with Blockenspiel 0.0.4
* Fixed a number of issues with remembering value parse settings
* Parser recognizes additional release type formats
* Values have a parse method to parse another string in the same form
* Implemented comparison between value and string
* Exceptions correctly raised on comparison between incompatible types

=== 0.0.3 / 2008-10-21

* Fixed string representations (inspect method)
* Fixed up equality and hash computation for version values

=== 0.0.2 / 2008-10-20

* Fixed manifest

=== 0.0.1 / 2008-10-20

* Initial test release
